# Muriel's Reflection Exercise

This course was my first experience in writing code. I’m an animation major, and I chose this class as my Fine Arts elective because I wanted to become more computer-literate and because I was hoping it would help me in my future career using Computers in a Creative capacity. Specifically, I thought it would be helpful to do things like writing expressions while keyframing to create specific movements. (example) I have a very vague idea of what my career might look like, but I want to be able to be as autonomous as possible - like, knowing how to create visuals using software is cool and all, but I want to be able to open it up somehow. I don’t have the exact words for this but I want to be able to do open heart surgery on my projects.
What surprised me most about programming is how free-form it is. I don’t remember exactly what I thought programming would be like, but I think I expected more difficulty in getting the program to understand what I was asking it to do, and more rigidity in where and how I could write my input. I didn’t expect it to feel rewarding in the exact same way as solving a puzzle.
Most of the problems I work through in animation involve thinking in visuals - like how to visually represent an object moving in perspective while keeping its shape consistent, grounded in its environment, and accurately depicting its weight and solidity. The problems we work through in coding forced me to use the mathematical reasoning part of my brain, which I haven’t had to do at this abstract of a level since my last math class in high school. (I’m 23.) Both make me feel like I made something from scratch that has a life of its own, feeding into my god complex.
I’m really proud of my Project 1, which is a game that prompts the player to mix different amounts of red, green, and blue light up to match a random RGB color. I struggled a lot while writing it because I was trying to create 87 near identical objects (the red, green, and blue buttons that the user could use to build their color) BEFORE we learned about arrays or objects, so I had to skip ahead a bit to complete it. Re-reading my code now, I should definitely rewrite it (for example, I wrote my class directly into the script file).
Another effect of this course is that now, whenever I type an open parenthese or quotation mark, I expect the closing one to automatically appear too.
It makes me sad that I won’t be continuing in creative coding because I genuinely had so much fun. I hope that my Project 2 comes out cool so that I can add that and my Project 1 to my animation portfolio and hopefully sometime, somewhere get the opportunity to work similar projects. I know that I could keep teaching myself and writing little bits of code for fun but being realistic, I’m trying to learn a lot of things at once and probably will not reach the level of proficiency I wish I had in any of my interests. Oh well!!!